README.md, before:

### CICD for Machine Learning with Weights and Biases

The tutorial incorporates Weights and Baises with CICD for Machine Learning. ```Github Actions``` is a CICD automation process for traditional software engineering used in testing and deploying codes when there is an update of codes. Github Actions usage is limited in ML because ML infrastructure is much more than codes update ML also involves new data upload, data drift, model performance etc, and Github Actions cannot track every experiment required for ML models. To perform CICD for ML when there's a new data upload, data drift, model performance checks, code testing, experiment tracking, monitoring and deployment, ***Weights and Biases*** will be included alongside Github actions.

Weights and Biases can also be used to cretae reports, tables, artifacts and monitoring for ML infrastructure.

* [1. create_runs.ipynb]() --> follow this notebook to create ```PROJECT and RUNS``` on Weights and Biases. Check Weights and Biases UI

* create a simple workflow template using the following Github action configurations [Github QuickStart Workflow](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/quickstart). Paste this code below in ```.github/workflows/ci.yaml```. 

* Edit the workflow template to run hello world action, triggered on a push event.

```bash
mkdir .github/workflows

cd .github/workflows

touch ci.yaml

name: GitHub Actions Demo                                                                                         # name of the Github workflow

on: [push]                                                                                                        # github event to trigger a workflow

jobs:                                                                                                             # workflow jobs
  my-first-job:                                                                                                   # name of job
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest                                                                                        # os the workflow runs on
    steps:
      - name: hello                                                                                               # name of the first step to run
        run: |                                                                                                    # first step to run. use | for multiple lines
          echo "hello world"                                                                                   

```

* commit to Github repo and trigger the action

Commit message:

create workflow that runs python script

README.md, after:

### CICD for Machine Learning with Weights and Biases

The tutorial incorporates Weights and Baises with CICD for Machine Learning. ```Github Actions``` is a CICD automation process for traditional software engineering used in testing and deploying codes when there is an update of codes. Github Actions usage is limited in ML because ML infrastructure is much more than codes update ML also involves new data upload, data drift, model performance etc, and Github Actions cannot track every experiment required for ML models. To perform CICD for ML when there's a new data upload, data drift, model performance checks, code testing, experiment tracking, monitoring and deployment, ***Weights and Biases*** will be included alongside Github actions.

Weights and Biases can also be used to cretae reports, tables, artifacts and monitoring for ML infrastructure.

* [1. create_runs.ipynb]() --> follow this notebook to create ```PROJECT and RUNS``` on Weights and Biases. Check Weights and Biases UI

* create a simple workflow template using the following Github action configurations [Github QuickStart Workflow](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/quickstart). Paste this code below in ```.github/workflows/ci.yaml```. 

* Edit the workflow template to run hello world action, triggered on a push event.

```bash
mkdir .github/workflows

cd .github/workflows

touch ci.yaml

name: GitHub Actions Demo                                                                                         # name of the Github workflow

on: [push]                                                                                                        # github event to trigger a workflow

jobs:                                                                                                             # workflow jobs
  my-first-job:                                                                                                   # name of job
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest                                                                                        # os the workflow runs on
    steps:
      - name: hello                                                                                               # name of the first step to run
        run: |                                                                                                    # first step to run. use | for multiple lines
          echo "hello world"                                                                                   

```

* commit to Github repo and trigger the action. Click on Action on Github to see each run jobs.

* Create and run Python Script [ci.py]()

```bash
python3 ci.py
```

* Update the ```ci.yaml``` file to run Python Script ```ci.py``` with Github actions, using checkout actions. Github checkout action clones the contents in the current repo into ```actions/checkout/@v3```, to have access to the files in the repository.

```bash
git status

git add .

git commit -m 'create workflow that runs python script'

git push <git-repo-url>
```
